>> Brian Holt: This, is this fair to say?
Yeah, this is my least favorite part
about SQLITE versus other databases.
This is the thing that drives
me absolutely bananas about it.
And there's like not unless someone
has some magic wand that they
know what to tell me.
There's no better way to do this.
So let's first talk about foreign keys.
Foreign Keys are basically what you and
I have been looking at already,
where we have the album ID in the track,
and that refers to the track, right?
It's a foreign key.
So let's look at schema.
Let's let's do album that might
be a little bit more clear.
So you had this in the album table,
you have an artistid that
refers to the artist.
It is a foreign key, because it's
a key that refers to another table.
That's the foreign part of it, right?
Very useful and you can see here
there's actually a constraint on this,
that it's a foreign key and
that it references a different table.
Which is cool.
The constraint is here ON DELETE NO ACTION
which is basically saying
if this foreign key, let's see, if the
artist gets deleted without deleting their
albums out of the album table,
it's just gonna fail the query, right?
That's what the no action is.
You could have this be set null,
you could have this be set default.
You could have it be
a bunch of other things.
But no action just means, before you let
the other table delete that particular
thing that this is referencing, make
sure that this is deleted first, right?
So, if I want to go delete
Led Zeppelin from the artist table,
I have to go delete all their albums
first, and then I can delete Led Zeppelin,
which I think is good.
It promotes data hygiene,
is what you would call that, right?
That's what a foreign key is.
It's a very common thing
to do in databases,
not that this is way beyond
the scope of this class but
there's some people that would say
like there's performance implications.
And maybe at scale you don't
want to do foreign keys and
so companies like extremely large
companies like Facebook, sometimes don't
use foreign keys even though when
they're you it's a foreign key, right?
I'm gonna say that I don't believe that
I think just use foreign keys, and
then wait until you're as big as
Facebook to solve those problems.
So that's kind of up to you but
[COUGH] If you don't have an opinion yet,
please use foreign keys.
Let's go with that and then Brennan's
problems with foreign keys and
then you can tell me that I'm
wrong when you're a billionaire.
Just give me a couple million as
a compensation for my opinion.
Okay, so foreign keys, I'm a fan.
I think they're a good idea.
I use them in all of in professional and
personal contexts,
as you can see here this is a foreign
key that references the artist.
I think it's useful that you have to go
delete things out of artists before you
can delete them in album.
Anything that helps keep
your data organized,
I think is very positive because not all
of us will have Facebook scaling problems,
but all of us will have data
hygiene problems, right?
That's just a universal
thing when you have tables.
What's my problem, right?
Why am I complaining about SQLITE?
Because SQLITE by default does
not respect foreign keys.
So despite the fact that this knows,
and I have set this to
not delete something from my album or
yeah, from my album table,
if there's an artist that
references it all the way around.
If there's an artist that references
the album table, it will.
It doesn't care, which drives me bananas,
because why do we have this if
you're not gonna respect it, right?
And you can obviously
see that it accepted it.
Let's even go prove my point.
>> Brian Holt: Artist where name equals,
I don't know.
Is it AC/DC, all right, so it's one so
and then if I say SELECT star
FROM ALBUM WHERE ARTIST.
I don't know why I'm doing this all caps,
probably because I'm angry right now,
where artistid equal one, right?
What did I do here?
I had to wear twice.
>> Brian Holt: Select star from
album where artistid equal 1.
Okay, so I should not be able to
delete AC/DC right now, right?
>> Brian Holt: Artist where artistid = 1.
>> Brian Holt: So those are still there,
>> Brian Holt: And
that is gone.
Are you upset?
I'm upset.
I am viscerally upset right now
that this database let me do this
despite the fact that it knows
it should not do that, why?
Why does it do this?
Well, SQLITE is aggressively
backwards compatible.
And so back, way back when it didn't,
I don't even know if it had foreign keys.
And if it did,
it didn't really respect them, right?
And so if you wrote an app way back
then you had foreign keys, and
it wasn't respected.
They didn't wanna break those apps by
failing queries that were not failing
previously.
And so,
they made this the default practice
that now you have to say
PRAGMA foreign-keys=on.
Okay, now that I've typed this now,
it will respect foreign keys.
But, what happens if I just disconnect
from my database and reconnect?
Well, now it's not respecting fragments
of my foreign keys anymore, right?
It's on a per connection basis.
You can't even set it for,
like, the whole file, right?
I can't even just, like,
set it once and say, like, okay.
Anyone reading from this file
has to respect foreign keys.
It's per, yeah, poor connection, upset.
I'm still upset.
So let's just go ahead and
do another delete from artistid2.
It should now tell me, yeah,
I got a foreign key constraint
that's gonna fail this for you.
>> Brian Holt: Pretty silly, right?
Pretty dumb, let me fix my database now.
Now, since I deleted AC/DC, git status.
I just need to get checkout data.db.
If you did what I did,
then you can just go re-download it again.
That also works.
All right, so I'm back in here.
I'm gonna say PRAGMA foreign_keys=on.
And let's do
>> Brian Holt: This,
cuz this should fail
a foreign key constraint.
It does why does it fail that?
Is because I'm trying to tell
it what album ID it is, and
because 9999 and media type,
all these aren't real.
It's like you can't reference
a foreign key that doesn't exist.
If again,
if I tried to do this without the PRAGMA
foreign_key=on it would just be like cool.
Here you go.
Here's a, what is this a track
that references no one, right?
And same thing here I
can't delete from genre.
WHERE GenreId = 24 because this
is a foreign key as well, right?
So what I'm telling you here is anytime
that you're inserting or deleting
from your database, your first query that
you have to send to SQLITE is this one.
Just do it, get into a habit,
make it automatic, just always send it.
You're just always gonna do it every
time you open that connection.
>> Brian Holt: So
there is something that you can do by a,
there's like a computer-level.
Automatically do this on my computer.
Anytime I open any SQLITE file,
put the PRAGMA = foreign key on.
I'm gonna argue that's actually worse
because as soon as your someone else gets
cloned into their computer,
they're not gonna have that and
they're gonna have a different problem.
Or you spin up a new server that
doesn't have that config file, right?
Just don't try and
solve it just suffer, is what I'm trying
to tell you just suffer and
complain that's what I do.
Cool PRAGMAs are basically like
policies that you can tell SQLITE to
respect we're saying for
this it's always on a per connection or
per open session maybe per session
is a better way of saying it.
You have to do it for
every connection to SQLITE Cloud.
There's a bunch of PRAGMAs, but this
is basically the only one that I use on
a consistent basis,
which is the foreign keys one.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
you can set it on the connection.
I think I read this somewhere.
I didn't actually put
this into the course,
but, yeah, apparently that's a thing.
So we did constraints here.
We're not going to talk
anymore about constraints.
Again, I talked more about it in
the Postgres one, constraints.
There's some other stuff in there.
They can basically make enumerated types
where basically it has to be one of
these things, right?
We're not gonna talk too much about it.
That's not that interesting for
the sake of this class.
We did a no action.
We talked about that.
There's also one called restrict,
which is essentially the same thing and
actually don't fundamentally understand
the difference between to do no action and
restrict.
I guess there's some minute
differences there, but
I see everyone do no action,
so that's what I do.
There's a pretty cool one
called On DELETE CASCADE.
If I delete something
from the artist table,
then go ahead and
delete all their albums automatically.
That actually,
that behavior would make sense to me.
So you could do that, just being aware
that you can accidentally cascade deletes
into things, because that's gonna then
delete all of your tracks as well, right?
If you did like multiple
on cascade deletes, and
then you can do ON DELETE SET null.
So if this gets deleted then and
there's a foreign key reference, right,
then you can do a null and
set a default as well.